The President:
As many of you know,
early on Friday,
at least twelve people were
killed when a gunman opened fire
at a movie theater
in Aurora, Colorado.
Dozens more are being treated
for injuries at local hospitals.
Some of the victims
are being treated at a
children's hospital.
We're still gathering all
the facts about what happened,
but we do know that the police
have one suspect in custody.
The federal government stands
ready to do everything necessary
to bring whoever's responsible
for this heinous crime
to justice.
We will take every step possible
to ensure the safety of all
our people.
And we will stand by our
neighbors in Colorado during
this extraordinarily
difficult time.
Even as we come to learn
how this happened and who's
responsible, we may never
understand what leads anyone to
terrorize their
fellow human beings.
Such evil is senseless
-- beyond reason.
But while we will never know
fully what causes someone to
take the life of another,
we do know what makes life
worth living.
The people we lost in Aurora
loved, and were loved.
They were mothers and
fathers; husbands and wives;
sisters and brothers;
sons and daughters;
friends and neighbors.
They had hopes for the future
and dreams that were not
yet fulfilled.
And if there's anything to
take away from this tragedy,
it's a reminder that
life is fragile.
Our time here is limited
and it is precious.
And what matters in the end are
not the small and trivial things
which so often
consume our lives.
It's how we choose to treat one
another, and love one another.
It's what we do on a daily basis
to give our lives meaning and
give our lives purpose.
That's what matters.
That's why we're here.
I'm sure many of you who are
parents had the same reaction I
did when you first heard this
news: what if it had been my
daughters at the theater, doing
what young children enjoy doing
every day?
Michelle and I will be fortunate
enough to hug our girls a little
tighter this weekend, as
I'm sure you will do with
your children.
But for those parents who
may not be so fortunate,
we need to embrace them and let
them know we will be there for
them as a nation.
This weekend I hope everyone
takes some time for prayer and
reflection -- for the victims
of this terrible tragedy,
for the people who knew
them and loved them,
for those who are still
struggling to recover,
and for all the victims of less
publicized acts of violence that
plague our communities
on a daily basis.
Let's keep all these
Americans in our prayers.
And to the people of Aurora, may
the Lord bring you comfort and
healing in the
hard days to come.